And just.
Anna Nacher: That we are spanned across time zones so actually for me, it is good afternoon i'm not sure about you and since then it's been Grasser, is located in Chicago close to Chicago Illinois lauren and Rachel are.
Anna Nacher: Close to Orlando Florida and justin is also London yeah although on usually close to London Los Angeles so um so we have several time zones, we have three.
Anna Nacher: brilliant papers I picked a bit in your papers and i'm really looking forward to hear more about.
Anna Nacher: Bands bence artwork.
Anna Nacher: The endless don't score that also is on the display.
Anna Nacher: In our exhibition copy and literature and then we'll progress and.
Anna Nacher: And we'll be.
Anna Nacher: Listening to lauren and Rachel talking about an.
Anna Nacher: Interesting use of.
Anna Nacher: tinder APP and I guess and finally justin about alternate reality games, the shroud, I was interested in some time ago, so i'm really looking forward to all three presentations because.
Anna Nacher: There is some kind of and i'm wondering what kind of a common theme will be running through all the presentations It remains to be seen, and I think we can discuss later so Ben, the floor is yours, the virtual for all, the floor is yours.
Ben Grosser: Thanks Anna.
Ben Grosser: To find the right window there we go.
Ben Grosser: Okay nice to see you all.
Ben Grosser: see if I can actually see you all, while I do this here.
Ben Grosser: All right, you all can see the presentation.
Ben Grosser: Yes.
Anna Nacher: Yes, we can see.
Ben Grosser: Thanks so yeah nice to be here and.
Ben Grosser: happy to be talking with you all so for many years now the smartphone has provided comfort and distraction during breaks and the regular flow of time.
Ben Grosser: But perhaps no moment in modern history has provided such widespread breaks in the normal flow is the early pandemic of 2020.
Ben Grosser: And eagerly awaiting anyone who reached for their phones over the last 14 months, where the social media platforms, a place many get their news from.
Ben Grosser: But these sites are designed to inform they're designed to engage us and they want to show whatever they can to keep us on the site and perhaps nothing more engaged us in.
Ben Grosser: than bad news, and so the combination of these factors, produced a proliferation of excessive bad news reading during the pandemic, a condition so common that it gained a new term doom scrolling.
Ben Grosser: Down scrolling refers to the ways in which people find themselves regularly and, in some cases, almost in voluntarily scrolling bad news headlines on their phone.
Ben Grosser: Often four hours each night in bed when they had meant to be sleeping and while we all need to stay on top of the news and case pandemic recommendations change.
Ben Grosser: doom scrolling wasn't just a natural reaction to the news of the day it was an activity largely produced by social media interfaces designed to show us, whatever they could, in order to keep us engaged.
Ben Grosser: And a primary mechanism central to do scrolling is the infinite scroll a dynamic interface design that makes sure the page a user is reading never ends.
Ben Grosser: and its aim is to reduce friction, as well as to obscure surveillance infrastructure behind the scenes and anytime we find a platform working to reduce friction, it should generally be taken as a clue to look more closely to think about why it's reducing friction.
Ben Grosser: interested in polled theorize about the object produced through such techniques as a Meta interface a layer between user and system that employees techniques like minimalist hiding.
Ben Grosser: to blur the moderate monitoring and profiling such interfaces enable hiding the fact that while we read them they read us back.
Ben Grosser: And their aim is to predict what will keep us they're transforming in this case human reading away from an active consumption into a sort of looping consumption of negative headlines.
Ben Grosser: The cultural effects of interfaces is an ongoing subject in net are and electronic literature and I mentioned a number of works in my full paper.
Ben Grosser: context so want to talk for a moment about an artwork of mine that fits within this frame and which investigates the cultural effects of doom scrolling and so work, called the endless doom scroll.
Ben Grosser: it's an alternative interface that acts as a lens on our pandemic era software enabled collective descent into despair.
Ben Grosser: released in summer of 2020 it presents itself as a simplified social media feed and each onion clickable button contains a short headline such as.
Ben Grosser: All events canceled devastation worsens lockdowns imminent outbreak continues the numbers look bad things like that.
Ben Grosser: And the only thing you can do with those headlines is scroll and no matter how long one scrolls or how fast the endless do scroll or will never stop presenting it's bad news headlines, they just keep coming.
Ben Grosser: And the works primary technique can be argued, as one of reduction, the work distills news and social media sites down to their barest most generalized messages and interface conventions.
Ben Grosser: headlines are simplified versions of real ones and the interface that presents them is reduced to its core interaction the infinite scroll.
Ben Grosser: And so, through these tactics, the endless doing scroller deconstructs the doom scrolling Meta interface revealing how it's changing what and how we read in the digital and pandemic age.
Ben Grosser: Feedback shows that, for some, it can create an opportunity for mindfulness about how they spend their time online for others, the peace enables a sort of exposure or substitution therapy a way to escape or replace what doom scrolling interfaces want from and do to us.
Ben Grosser: And, through its reduction, the work counters the minute interfaces minimalist hiding with a sort of minimalist revealing a reduction that shows, rather than hines.
Ben Grosser: And ultimately, what the endless doom scroller does is to show us how the software structures of social media change not only what we read, but how we read.
Ben Grosser: As an a static reductive interface experience it provides renewed opportunities for agency within the systems we all find ourselves stuck in, in other words, when it comes to reading social media and the age of pandemic.
Ben Grosser: whoops perhaps the only way out of too much doom scrolling is endless scrolling.
Ben Grosser: Thanks.
Anna Nacher: yeah I already asked.
Anna Nacher: questions.
Anna Nacher: later on.
questions.
Anna Nacher: Now i'm passing the torch.
Anna Nacher: lauren or else do I pronounce your.
Anna Nacher: Name okay yeah so Laura Morales and Rachel winter and we're delving into tinder.
Lauren Rouse (she/they): hold on just a second I have like okay great and.
Right.
Lauren Rouse (she/they): hi everyone, my name is lauren rouse and I am here with my co author Rachel winter and we are presenting our paper called swype nights was fun, but useless and analysis of 10 there's a slight night and interactive foray into online dating.
Lauren Rouse (she/they): So swipe nights was debuted and October.
Lauren Rouse (she/they): and allowed tender users to navigate through a narrative based around the premise that they had three hours until the end of the world's.
Lauren Rouse (she/they): Each Sunday, a new episode premiered and users had until midnight to play through the story so we're going to watch the little trailer that they have this oh sorry.
Lauren Rouse (she/they): All right, we're good.
Rachel Winter: I cannot hear any sound lauren yeah.
We don't yeah.
Lauren Rouse (she/they): Sorry.
Lauren Rouse (she/they): Thanks Rachel.
Rachel Winter: Still don't hear the sound I feel like the visuals are probably fine.
Lauren Rouse (she/they): Okay.
Anna Nacher: Okay, when you when you try it before the session sentence so.
Lauren Rouse (she/they): yeah.
So finding.
Lauren Rouse (she/they): Okay, I was unsure if that would work but it's just a little 45 second trailer at talking about the kind of narratives that played through this entire adventure so.
Lauren Rouse (she/they): Users choices that helped shaped not only the unfolding of the narrative but also contributed to potential matches with other tinder users, I divergence from tenders usual practice of matching users by proximity.
Lauren Rouse (she/they): At the end of the gameplay users could post their results to their pro top profile for potential match users to see.
Rachel Winter: So, because tinder facilitates a one to one communication through private messages we had to find a different approach to study user reactions, his wife night event because we didn't have access to those messages, obviously.
Rachel Winter: So the reddit platform, and specifically the subreddit our tinder provides a space for tender users to post screenshots messages and bios as well as her reflect on their tinder experiences as a Community.
Rachel Winter: So to collect data from that subreddit we use the free webs web scraper parse hub to collect data from the top 50.
Rachel Winter: most relevant threads from our gender so again it wasn't specifically dedicated this white knight so we looked for threads within the subreddit that we're dedicated to the interactive fiction.
Lauren Rouse (she/they): And so, when users would post about swipe nights on their tinder profile these two graphics on the left side of your screen are what it would show up looking like on their.
Lauren Rouse (she/they): profile profile and where the choices were so in the top left, we have a bio.
Lauren Rouse (she/they): which would just be if you open the tinder APP, and so it says that they had the ending of molly's House which is from the first episode.
Lauren Rouse (she/they): And then the second image on the screen is a more in depth look in a bio and the bio actually says anyone else keep getting stressed out by the swype night game I keep selecting the wrong things, and they have a episode two with their ending and the choices that they made as well.
Lauren Rouse (she/they): So after we collected our data from the are tender subreddit we used orange data visualization to run a sentiment analysis.
Lauren Rouse (she/they): sentiment analysis uses natural language processing to determine whether text has a positive neutral or negative connotation.
Lauren Rouse (she/they): Following sentiment analysis we create a heat map which is this image on your screen which orders, the data into blue negative emotions or yellow positive emotions.
Lauren Rouse (she/they): There are also neutral responses which express neither positive nor negative responses sentiment analysis gets a lot of like flat kind of from academia about how you can't really tell if something is positive or negative.
Lauren Rouse (she/they): And so that's why we wanted to compile also the neutral sentiments as well.
Rachel Winter: So we actually found that there was a large amount of neutral statements, including those in which users were discussing their technical issues with the application.
Rachel Winter: And then crowdsourcing potential troubleshooting solutions, so this provides us some insight into the role that platform, the coordinators and community.
Rachel Winter: Have in the way that users interact so tender only enables private communication so it's a 14 says don't.
Rachel Winter: enable crowd sourcing solutions which sends users in search of platforms with designs that better enable this type of communication such as read it with its dedicated subreddit.
Rachel Winter: We also found that the compound score had an overall negative sentiment some users argued that white knight was annoying or useless.
Rachel Winter: while others expressed frustration with the scenarios in the game, to which they cannot relate, such as the choice.
Rachel Winter: Which required users to either cover for or expose a friend grams infidelity, which is the context for the quote.
Rachel Winter: On the right hand side of the slide the girls will hate my choice because I covered for Graham but in all reality, I would have never gotten involved in the first place.
Rachel Winter: So this indicates that although interactivity has commonly been associated with increased identification with characters.
Rachel Winter: reactions to swipe might suggest that moral and ethical predicaments can result in an opposite reaction.
Rachel Winter: Especially when user choices may result in an impact offline such as their potential matches matches on the tender platform and also potential future offline meetups.
Rachel Winter: So this is just what the context of the tinder platform impacts user engagement with and response to the interactive fiction.
Rachel Winter: So it not only highlighted the gamification in hyper textual methods at play in modern day dating but also brought to the forefront issues of morality and ethics inciting a potential partner, so the context of swype night on the to their platform.
Rachel Winter: suggest that platform differences in Community impact audience reception of an engagement with fiction that's questions of morality, are more impactful in a story disengaged from us then from a story disengage from users online identities.
Rachel Winter: Thank you, and we have our contact info here and I encourage you to read our paper to.
Anna Nacher: Thank you so much, I guess, our perspective on what platform is changes from one presentation to another and actually that might be the running theme, or how we see the platforms through all the examples discussed here.
Anna Nacher: Even if our next.
Anna Nacher: Even though our next presentation is actually cross platform as alternate reality games usually are.
justin.
Justin: Oh yeah Thank you let me.
Justin: Share screen.
Justin: Okay hi everybody, my name is justin board neck, and my paper is called dangerous games our social media platforms and participatory propaganda, but we figured that out from the title on the slide but I figured I would just make sure.
Justin: So.
Justin: Before I give a brief overview of the specifics five minutes or so that were a lot and I wanted to first throughout some definitions.
Justin: The first one is for alternate reality games, for those who aren't familiar for our purposes today i'll quote you a definition from the source of all human knowledge Wikipedia.
Justin: Which is that an alternate reality game or arg is an interactive network to narrative that uses the real world as a platform and employees transmedia storytelling to deliver a story.
Justin: That may be altered by players ideas or actions so we're going to use art for the rest of the session I professionally designed several arts for there's the definition there for video games and.
Justin: marketing campaigns for films and private entertainment would work well with.
Justin: When well executed they're really fun they're sort of like a massive live action role play with thousands of participants all working together to unravel the mystery or achieve a goal.
Justin: So i'm guessing everyone knows it social media is I won't take the time to break that one down that will bring me to the third degree by title, which is participatory propaganda.
Justin: This is a term coined by alicia wallace and Michael Burke, and represents a paradigm shift and propaganda distribution.
Justin: Traditional propaganda comes from the top down, is the old ways it's usually run by the state or some other powerful body with the ability to widely produce and distributes the messaging.
Justin: They do things like print newspapers and radio and television programming rewrite history books changing curriculum to get it to the masses.
Justin: Under the new paradigm, though the propaganda is delivered from the ground up, so the original messaging is still produced by somebody with power agenda.
Justin: But then it spread to a small group of hardcore true believers who then spread it through their own social channels.
Justin: Both in person online, and you can see the potential for exponential growth here if there are 100 believers that you shared with 25 friends and family.
Justin: and of those 25 say three by it and each Spencer 25 more friends and family well soon you've built your grassroots, in other words a top down effort transforms into a body bottom up, seemingly organic movement.
Justin: So I have maybe to two minutes left out of five so at that time i'd like to briefly highlight a real world example which you're all probably familiar with, to some degree Q and.
Justin: q.is the current conspiracy theory genre the United States, and though it's by no means the first example of sort of thing that I wrote about because he sought after 911 as well, for example.
Justin: Briefly, for the blessedly out initiated but i'm sorry to do this to you q.is a conspiracy theory.
Justin: That posits that the entire United States is controlled by a shadowy cabal of pedophiles and that the Members of this nefarious group are the leaders of the democratic party celebrities and billionaires.
Justin: against these forces Donald trump is waging a war of justice and virtue, with the goals exposing their crimes and restoring America to its former greatness.
Justin: There are a lot of reasons that people buy into this story and we don't have time to go through them in this talk, but.
Justin: Many revolve around things like perceived as power bench and marginalization and alienation and, of course, if you believe this is true.
Justin: You have a moral imperative to support the former President as loudly as possible and tell everybody, you know about what's going on, because children are at stake.
Justin: Human on is a sort of alternate reality game and it's just that nobody has told the players that it is real.
Justin: It exact exactly the same way as a game master the mysterious Hugh he's ostensibly a government official with first hand knowledge of trumps evaluate struggle.
Justin: Q posts cryptic messages to social media which Q adherence rapid rapidly devour and parse for meaning.
Justin: Just like players have an Arc spend hours poring over fictional websites and reading fabricated documents as they attempt to solve puzzles which are created by the end designers.
Justin: Q followers do the same thing with real life, the smallest things become imbued with utmost important so, for example.
Justin: At trump's with farewell speech on January 21 there were 17 American flags on stage, he was the 17th letter of the alphabet So this was clearly at coded sign to keep the faith, despite Joe biden's and petting a dog duration.
Justin: This is all quite terrifying to people like me who designed this sort of entertainment as we're seeing our work co opted for decidedly the various purposes.
Justin: Unfortunately, many game designers aren't even aware that their tools are being appropriated level load what those tools are being made to do.
Justin: There are a few ways to go about trying to address this problem and i'd be happy to talk about them in the Q amp a discussion if folks are interested.
Justin: But the big picture is that we have a real problem here, and currently the commercial games industry is perfectly happy to keep pressing forward and happy ignorance churning out.
Justin: Ever more entertained but that bolsters rather than undermines those who have real interested subverting democracy i'm sorry to end on that downer note and it's not all bad I promise but we're uh.
Justin: we're about at the end of the five minutes that they told us to use, so I wanted to turn it over to the back back to the moderator for the Q amp a here from the other panelists as well i'm sure we could.
Justin: loop discussion back around to some of these things if the opportunity arises like you very much.
Anna Nacher: Thank you very much, I.
Anna Nacher: I on the other hand, encourage the audience, to have a peek at the papers which are stored in a conference system it's definitely interesting right and and now the Q amp a session we have plenty of time and I hope we have lots of interesting questions on.
Anna Nacher: That the one is already here, actually, two of them are already here in the chat one comes from alan's on time and then one from Germany hide and I didn't know and would you like to pose the question now yourself.
Alan Sondheim: Can you hear me.
Alan Sondheim: yeah yeah I was reading Gordon all ports book on studies and prejudice and one of the things that he talks about as an experiment was done.
Alan Sondheim: This is all really I think back in the 50s where a group of individuals who are class somewhere classified as prejudice, some are classified as non prejudice in relationship to say black issues and so forth, and they were showed.
Alan Sondheim: Both groups everybody was shown a truncated a diagram of a truncated pyramid pyramid which was tilted to one side and the people, and then they were asked several months later to redraw to draw with a remember to the pyramid and the people who were prejudiced.
Alan Sondheim: By and large, through the pyramid symmetrically which it wasn't in the original drawing in people who didn't score high on the prejudice scale do it as closer to the original which was.
Alan Sondheim: lopsided so there's a they were making a point as a tendency to simplify and to find these causal change the symmetries which are related to causal change.
Alan Sondheim: Rather than deal with the complexity of, say, the contemporary world which cumin on cuts through brilliantly actually because if you can trace everything to something that's on the level of mythos.
Alan Sondheim: becomes much easier to believe, because then everything becomes a sign or signifier towards that, so I think this plays very much into what we're on to what we're talking about here.
Anna Nacher: This is a question for someone particular all to all panelists.
Alan Sondheim: So pamela is particularly to the last.
Anna Nacher: Thanks Jackson yeah.
justin so maybe yes.
Justin: i'm not sure I understood understood the question, could you could you be.
Justin: repeat the core of it, just like you said a lot of stuff so I want to make sure I understand.
Alan Sondheim: It was more it was more a comment on where prejudice arrives arises where Q and on arises needs situation and basically it's the idea that you collapse, the complexity of contemporary life into into simply a core, which is a core based on classical cause and effect so.
Alan Sondheim: Yes, a comment about this.
Justin: yeah I think you're right here to.
Alan Sondheim: live, particularly if you're not particularly educated or if you're not used to really questioning critique or developing critique of your own.
Justin: yeah.
Justin: I think you're right about.
Justin: What you said it's about collapsing complexity that's that's one of those reasons that I mentioned.
Justin: people get addicted is because they feel like the World doesn't make sense and here's the explanation that says Oh, you know here's a very straightforward reason why.
Justin: All of the things that seemed to make sense in your life before don't anymore it's just do this, that everything will be fine the gap.
Justin: And so it simplifies like you said, a world that appears to be nonsensical into a framework that they could easily follow.
Alan Sondheim: But it's interesting that it also, at least according to that one experiment and i've seen other things similar it also really affects your ability.
Alan Sondheim: Later on, to process information with it pyramids people actually remembered things differently, as a result of something as a result of a kind of compression of belief.
Anna Nacher: yeah Thank you justin would you like to to answer to this as well, our other panelists.
Justin: Have any things that the other.
Anna Nacher: Other panelists will do you like to comment on what just what was just said.
Anna Nacher: yeah, so I think yeah Thank you Thank you and I actually it is a very complex issue, so I don't think this panel alone would you know ever.
Anna Nacher: Ever fulfill the whole space that's needed to discuss.
Anna Nacher: The subject.
Anna Nacher: So I like to.
Anna Nacher: i'd like to turn to Jeremy and you'd like to ask your question yourself.
Jeremy Hight: um.
Jeremy Hight: i've been a fan of ben's project for a while and it was really, really fascinating to see to other projects that to me i'm seeing all these connective threads.
Jeremy Hight: And one of them is that I teach at two colleges and one of them is done, but the other I teach ethics and rhetoric and to have the options that we've been covering throughout the Semester are that the kind of the the.
Jeremy Hight: trend of that sort of fracture line between techno.
Jeremy Hight: utopianism.
Jeremy Hight: And dystopia and the immersive kind of narcotizing nature of so much information, and so you have tinder which you can passively scroll through or you can engage relationships.
Jeremy Hight: You have conspiracy theories which had been rising, and some of the some of the things we looked at her some people argue it's.
Jeremy Hight: The dystopia times, or any other say perhaps it's people looking at in terms of psychology that.
Jeremy Hight: When the world is so uncertain conspiracy theories are like a warm cup of cocoa, because you can find an answer to something you can understand, like the early naming of gods in history right.
Jeremy Hight: And then ben's project is how, and I know him through social media, so this is perfect, to start with, that is, that.
Jeremy Hight: You can passively scroll through your social media but it's been so dark for at least two years now that it becomes a dooms girl so he's touching on something, but the thread that I that I was curious among all the panelists is that.
Jeremy Hight: What do you think about what what someone like me sitting here at 7am whatever here in La.
Jeremy Hight: That i'm seeing between all what you're dealing with is that so there's a narrative within tinder tinder.
Jeremy Hight: and its promotional but it's fascinating that you're looking at data that was kind of like the normal set data, like the mundane any data, not just the expected engagement.
Jeremy Hight: That the commercial aspect would go for and how that relates to the larger platform and then ben's project and then justin's like How much is it that you're all incisively going deeper into things that we can passively just.
Jeremy Hight: Be immersed in on our phones.
Anna Nacher: Thank you.
Sir.
Anna Nacher: Ben.
Anna Nacher: Would you like to.
Ben Grosser: comment sure yeah thanks JEREMY.
Ben Grosser: For that yeah that's an interesting.
Ben Grosser: yeah I think I think I appreciate your efforts to draw connections across these different papers, I guess you know playing off of a little bit.
Ben Grosser: Is the idea, and then the theme of the conference just platform platform in the pandemic, I suppose, and while.
Ben Grosser: You know, in my case, social media in general, maybe is the platform i'm thinking about and for Rachel and lauren it's it's tender for justin I suppose it's it's more broad than that but, of course.
Ben Grosser: Maybe eight channel the case that Q and on is the platform, but it's not quite the same thing, but definitely behind the scenes of all platforms is the design of the algorithm that.
Ben Grosser: presents information with an intention and that intention is not always in the foreground I would say, and I see that as maybe a.
Ben Grosser: connective tissue across the papers in response to to JEREMY that in the case of social media it's feed algorithms designed to engage in the case of tinder.
Ben Grosser: You know, obviously there's the intention to connect and enable connection, but of course there's also the gathering of data and everything else that happens in every kind of platform.
Ben Grosser: algorithmic platform and the case of Q and on perhaps Q and on, I suppose, might be considered the the algorithm behind the scenes that instigates and triggers.
Ben Grosser: different kinds of reactions, but of course there's, the environment, maybe it's the environment of kind of.
Ben Grosser: conspiracy theory thinking that becomes the algorithm in that case anyway that's that's just one way I kind of response I can see some connections.
Anna Nacher: Thank you Ben and lauren lauren and Rachel I have also some separate questions for you, about tinder in a moment, but would you like to.
Anna Nacher: comment on on this question.
Rachel Winter: yeah I think that a lot of the time, the sort of activity that we see as being sort of passive scrolling is actually.
Rachel Winter: A lot more meaningful than we perceive in addition to the algorithms like Ben was mentioning.
Rachel Winter: The design of platforms, I mean platforms are designed by human beings and then they're instantiated with the values of those human beings.
Rachel Winter: And they shaped the way that people engage with both the technological acquaintances and the Community on those platforms and I think that understanding how.
Rachel Winter: actually very intentional, a lot of our seemingly meaningless activity is can give you are really significant look into not only platform design.
Rachel Winter: but also how people approach those designs so whether or not people choose to use the importance visible in the way that they're intended or choose to resist that intention.
Rachel Winter: Their choices are still being shaped by the performances of these platforms and I think that understanding that and understanding how people engage differently with different platforms and different populations.
Rachel Winter: and give us a pretty significant insight not only into it the human activity factor of it, but also how the design can impact those choices.
You.
Anna Nacher: lauren.
Anna Nacher: Just yeah so.
Lauren Rouse (she/they): No, I think Rachel said everything but.
Lauren Rouse (she/they): I was.
Anna Nacher: sort of waiting for free also commenting on but anyway, like I said, there is another question directed at you specifically.
Anna Nacher: We have a monitoring chance, by the way, but if you want to ask your question or cervical also raise hands and I be.
Anna Nacher: dividing my my attention between two channels and we have two questions from manual Cox actually one question is for justin and another one is for lauren and Rachel and then soren bold so Daniel please.
Anna Nacher: Would you like to ask your question yourself.
Anna Nacher: or just direct people to chat.
Daniel Cox: Yes, I could attempt to answer it or ask it sorry.
Daniel Cox: i'm just I feel like this was actually answered before but i'm interested within the art design spaces, could you talk a little bit more about the complications.
Daniel Cox: When our design spaces come into contact with conspiracy theories, I feel like you started to address that and i'm interested in if there are any interesting stories or comments you could just share on that topic.
Justin: So you mean when our spaces come into contact with like real conspiracy theories that are out there in the world, independent of the game.
Correct.
Justin: yeah well I think it's very common for that to happen.
Justin: Because I tell you that one of the ready made forums for an alternate reality games if you're a designer and you just want to make one is a conspiracy theory narrow down.
Justin: Because it just presented it, you can make up anything and you could just say oh yeah it's part of the conspiracy and people buy into it right.
Justin: fictional it.
Justin: I haven't seen a lot of contact with people who are currently playing an alternate reality game butting up against a real conspiracy theory that is not part of the game and having that ended up becoming incorporated.
Justin: that's one of the strengths of the farm is that they cast a very wide net and then examine everything so they might say hey there's this thing going on is this part of the game.
Justin: That does investigate and say like maybe probably not you know, put it on the list of things that like to monitor, but we can't get anything out of it.
Justin: it's at this is especially in every really successful game with thousands of players, like a ruthlessly efficient to plot efficient process of vetting content so.
Justin: i'm not sure that i've seen existing conspiracies get co opted into a game, but I have seen.
Justin: conspiracy theories that people actually believe in in the real world, like the illuminati or the Committee of 300 or the protocols of the elders of Zion that sort of stuff used as the basis to make a fictional if that makes sense.
Anna Nacher: Thank you.
Anna Nacher: I agree it is very.
Anna Nacher: interesting topic, so to speak, like you know the alternate reality game, I mean customer conspiracy theorists might have prepared the ground for you know some kind of fantasy reality play and Daniel your second question is for lauren and Rachel right.
Daniel Cox: Yes, Lord and Rachel i'm interested in so Rachel was speaking to the forces of different platforms i'm interested in how important secondary platforms, you mentioned reddit in connection to tender.
Daniel Cox: How much do these create an opportunity or create a space for communities from other platforms, so if your example you mentioned collecting things from reddit and i'm kind of interested in.
Daniel Cox: The offenses of different platforms and the ways in which, if you want to sort of speak to the content from your paper connecting allowing Twitter users to congregate on another platform to talk about a different platform, this is interesting sort of inter platform connection here.
Lauren Rouse (she/they): yeah definitely so um we initially did this research, and I think the beginning of 2020 and because it was just about like three months after the original.
Lauren Rouse (she/they): swipe night had aired and so we really wanted to see kind of what people were talking about on other platforms and when we had gone on to Twitter we couldn't really find anything super specific so we decided to.
Lauren Rouse (she/they): head over to read it, where there is a pretty big tinder community and people use that platform to like share funny bios or profiles that they find.
Lauren Rouse (she/they): They do like a match of the week thing, where people will share like they're beginning messages with a match, and they, like all vote on it and they talking about like they're bad experiences, or just people being like rude on tinder.
Lauren Rouse (she/they): But it definitely had like kind of the tech support like aspect of it that we hadn't expected when originally setting out force white knight specifically and.
Lauren Rouse (she/they): So there are definitely like a lot of ordinances for looking at these like trans platform type uses for something like swipe my it, because it shows that.
Lauren Rouse (she/they): tinder which is specifically often like very personal and you usually don't get to share that kind of aspect with your matches on tinder.
Lauren Rouse (she/they): It shows that that still build like a community of users outside of maybe like your close friends or anything like that so looking trans platform, why is, we were able to see that there were.
Lauren Rouse (she/they): Definitely places that people like congregate and talk about tinder that are not just on listener APP as well.
Lauren Rouse (she/they): Rachel do you have anything that.
Anna Nacher: Thank you.
Lauren Rouse (she/they): Thank you.
Anna Nacher: More questions coming to you, but now i'm passing the torch to surrender, who has who has another two questions, one for Jesse and one for Ben.
S?ren Bro Pold (he, him): yeah or maybe it's a question for both of you.
S?ren Bro Pold (he, him): I was, I was.
S?ren Bro Pold (he, him): Of course dropped by what been talked about when he sort of talked about this minimalist hiding that you try to contact with a minimalist revealing and and you ended with this that the end of June scrolling is the is endless doing scrolling.
S?ren Bro Pold (he, him): And and and then we have this example of the sixth of January interaction with Q and on.
S?ren Bro Pold (he, him): And I just you know i'm i'm not American side you know I didn't follow it that kills you but, but of course we all heard about it, and one of the things that.
S?ren Bro Pold (he, him): struck me was the way, many of these people that were caught in Congress were surprised somehow that it wasn't a game, or that it was something that was really happening.
S?ren Bro Pold (he, him): And not you know just something on social media, but something that had real consequences and was actually you know illegal and stuff so, so in that sense, it seems to become some kind of example of an it is ization of politics.
S?ren Bro Pold (he, him): That happens through these are great new platforms.
S?ren Bro Pold (he, him): That they were they are a word coding, but we all caught in them somehow.
S?ren Bro Pold (he, him): And and and and so i'm i'm wondering, and you know it's a it's a reflection of gone with for a while and.
S?ren Bro Pold (he, him): Also talk to Ben with it earlier but but, but how can we ever start to understand read this this way of.
S?ren Bro Pold (he, him): You know reading how they read us in some sense of course it's Bernard but in other ways it's also highly complex and maybe as complex as the many ways these platforms.
S?ren Bro Pold (he, him): Try to hide it so it's yeah so it's both a political question but it's also very sort of an infrastructural interface interface question right and maybe maybe the political question is for justin and the more interface related could be for been.
Ben Grosser: yeah thanks or and certainly.
Ben Grosser: I guess I think about the political part of it, too, but the the.
Ben Grosser: Certainly in the way I ended up writing about the work unless doom scroller was inspired by your work and Christians work to just try to think about.
Ben Grosser: We all intern I mean I think when we we live in algorithmic platforms that are.
Ben Grosser: In whether it's all the social media platforms are making decisions about what we see and what we don't all the time.
Ben Grosser: I think a condition that's common across most if not all users of algorithmic platforms is some kind of internalization to internalized idea of what the algorithm is or what it's doing or how it thinks or.
Ben Grosser: Usually manifest in the kinds of signals that people send back to the system, imagining that it's going to have some positive effect they might like certain kinds of things, thinking that will produce more of those things that they might.
Ben Grosser: move quickly past other things, and hopes that the system doesn't lock on to that and show them more of the thing they don't want.
Ben Grosser: But often when you talk to at least I think about my own teaching with students at the University, you know we talked about social media and there's a.
Ben Grosser: there's often a kind of dismissive attitude towards the you know, lack of worry, a lack of concern that kind of is present about all this decision making and what its effects might be and.
Ben Grosser: I think you know the.
Ben Grosser: With thinking about the Meta interface and minimalist hiding this kind of you know super slick make it all really clean and Nice and then, like all of the massive.
Ben Grosser: distributed server based surveillance systems that are going on underneath capturing every possible move I talked about this in detail in the paper, but you know recording.
Ben Grosser: Every scroll every every moment you hold your mouse over something but don't click everything you type, but then delete.
Ben Grosser: It just let you know every little bit is captured and recorded and analyze in order to best engage the user to keep them on the platform and so.
Ben Grosser: part of what I found and reactions to the endless doom scroller which is really not a social media platform it's kind of just taking the interface conventions and the message conventions of of headlines and putting into.
Ben Grosser: A very simplified form is that it often would produce this reaction of Oh, this is what i've been doing with my time i've just been.
Ben Grosser: stuck in this system, and when you when you boil it down it's easier to see it's easier to feel.
Ben Grosser: That that's what we've been feeling I think that's kind of what I end up hearing from people and so that's where I kind of decided to think about it, as this minimalist revealing and, as a kind of a counter to the minimalist hiding that.
Ben Grosser: Your minimalist hiding, you know I would think of is as a strategy to.
Ben Grosser: push you know completely off the screen the things that they don't want you to know and with middle most revealing I guess i've been thinking about it is pushing only the things onto the screen that I want people to think about.
Ben Grosser: As in the ways that they engage with interface, so you know getting rid of the thing that that maybe drew them there in the first place, but leaving the things that the system gives them as the primary ordinances, which in this case or bad news headlines and scroll forever.
Anna Nacher: Thank you so much, and justin.
Justin: yeah.
Justin: And I think this answer might address some of the questions that have popped up in chat since that I see there's a q&a discussion going on there.
Justin: And I think the first part is to adjust you know you say you're not American you did you you're aware of it, but you weren't paying attention, and I think for people who live in America.
Justin: Most of them are not aware of this but.
Justin: conspiracy theory Q amp out is not is the latest incarnation in a long line they said, you know we saw the same sort of thing after September 11 but even going further back to that to like.
Justin: The election of Andrew Jackson we saw conspiracy theories as the primary or amongst the primary political toolboxes for getting elected to the Presidency, even though it's probably no coincidence that Donald trump says Jackson was his favorite President.
Justin: And the reemergence of conspiracy theories into the political sphere, if the 21st century is actually I think part of a larger like reversion to the mean for American culture.
Justin: That polarization the misinformation the fake news the conspiracy theories all of that used to be very tightly wound into the American political culture.
Justin: And it sort of vanished after the post war period for reasons that I could speculate about i'm not an expert, I think it has to do with shared experiences.
Justin: kabaddi racial gender sexuality amongst those who are in power, allowing them to sort of have a common ground, which is harder today with increase representation and rights, which I think is a good thing, but it's introduced new challenges.
Justin: So I think that the platform concerned in conspiracy theory when it comes to Q and on is that it lets it spread much more efficiently right, you know if you let's say in 1960 if you believed that.
Justin: I don't know aliens were going to arrive and peach universal brotherhood which was you know we all think that you know if you look at alien narratives from the 16th that's what was that was a universal brotherhood and harmony and understanding, all our age of aquarius stuff.
Justin: Even if some people believed you you'd have to like go out and personally tell people about this at the vast majority, people are gonna say to you.
Justin: hey you're crazy and, like the group pressure around that it's going to make it to the you're not going to get very far, but these platforms, allow us to find very specialized niche audiences to reach.
Justin: That you would never be able to find out, it allows your global reach as well, which is obviously these conspiracy theories cropping about other cultures as well.
Justin: I don't know that sort of adjust what your question was in a major way.
S?ren Bro Pold (he, him): yeah yeah yeah definitely.
S?ren Bro Pold (he, him): It is this kind of if this if this station that we are your to talk about different ways of propaganda, you know if it's quite willing to do that, I guess.
Anna Nacher: yeah and there's a larger background, so to speak, to those articles background i'm thinking about reaction is movement dark enlightenment, you know those obscure philosophers such as email us at Loyola or.
Anna Nacher: Or, I extend their blogging Even so, we could discuss it, I think, for the next and our to see interesting coincidence yeah justin.
Justin: yeah I have a question for Ben actually that I want to ask them.
Justin: that crops up while I was reading his paper so.
Justin: This.
Justin: I don't want this to feel like a depict, but it may be really curious, so I hope you have an answer for me, but it's about the psychology of scrolling.
Justin: So I was thinking of it right at the top, where you talked about doing this crawlies this new compulsive behavior right, so I wanted to ask is this, is this really a new behavior because I was thinking about.
Justin: Oliver Wendell Holmes senior not not the Supreme Court justice, this is father.
Justin: He wrote that I know this is the electronic literature foundation, but bear with me, this is about newspapers.
Justin: You wrote about the newspaper habit in 1861 in the Atlantic, you read about how this sort of perpetual.
Justin: Inter inter communication, which was joined to the power of instantaneous action.
Justin: keeps us alive with excitement there's, not a single bullet to that comes best what we're about to do.
Justin: For a week of Sub great engagement it doesn't matter if it's true or false every hour early power graphs are laden with.
Justin: You know, information and he concludes by saying that, like only the bread and the newspaper the things that we have to have right everything else we could do without as a society and, of course.
Justin: You know 1861 this coincided with another event like the pandemic that induced massive social upheaval at anxiety, which was the civil war.
Justin: So i'm wondering like what we're calling doom scrolling today could be possibly a manifestation of something more deeper that arises in human psychology whenever there's not enough information about something that's particularly Titanic, the culture and the throes of solitude uncertainty.
Justin: And I you know you acknowledge that the endless scroll is like vastly more addicting these platform holders like complicit in a lot of.
Justin: horrible things that I don't want to discount that but I wonder how much of this would be occurring, even without the algorithms like are we just programmed to do the scroll at the end, regardless of the error.
Ben Grosser: yeah thanks for that testing.
Ben Grosser: So a couple a couple of responses that I would I would give one is that and I, and I do go into some of this history of the paper didn't have time in the talk, but.
Ben Grosser: Is we it's been well studied that we have a predisposition a psychological predisposition to the negative that.
Ben Grosser: I mean, this is what headline writers for all of time have been playing on is that a certain quality of negative in a headline grabs our attention more so than a happy positive one.
Ben Grosser: I quoted in the paper.
Ben Grosser: You know if it bleeds it leads is the is the phrase that you hear in the news that emerged in the 80s.
Ben Grosser: You know that anything negative is going to grab me, and this has been looked at in network news and basically any kind of news space, but.
Ben Grosser: When I think about doom scrolling in the current era it's.
Ben Grosser: it's more than a predisposition to the negative because.
Ben Grosser: In the case of a newspaper it's a finite object per day with a finite list of options in an order that was pre determined, but is fixed for all users.
Ben Grosser: Not everybody gets a custom newspaper perfectly designed to keep them focused on the paper they get the paper and.
Ben Grosser: They get to play with it, but in the cases of social media platforms it's not just that the content on the social media platform in the pandemic was perhaps the most activating for someone who is predisposed to the negative because it was global crisis.
Ben Grosser: existential uncertainty, you know threats to health, etc, but these were platforms that were watching every move that we make as a user.
Ben Grosser: Using that analysis to give us precisely the right bad news headline next such that that one keeps us scrolling down to the next one, and to the next one, etc Wendy I quote Wendy China.
Ben Grosser: In the paper to who talks about the way that social media platforms produce neoliberal subjects who are always find always searching never finding it puts us into these kinds of loops.
Ben Grosser: Even in that talking in the paper about how we get turned almost transformed into a while loop thinking computationally where the STOP condition is when there's no more to read or when we're no longer anxious and.
Ben Grosser: infinite scroll ensures there's always something more to read and profiling algorithmic profiling of the user in in the case of global pandemic or a case of global uncertainty.
Ben Grosser: Is.
Ben Grosser: ensures that will always be anxious it's like keeping the anxiety level up high enough that it just makes it very hard to as.
Ben Grosser: Garrett loving says.
Ben Grosser: describe your camera the exact quote but basically makes it really hard to disconnect from the system to disrupt our own behavior, I think, is how he puts it.
Ben Grosser: So anyway that's those wasn't taught so does it mean to me that quality is.
Ben Grosser: Is a dramatic escalation of of the CES of this what we might call doom scrolling and the previous era before algorithmic feeds.
Anna Nacher: yeah Thank you so much um I think political and.
Anna Nacher: political environment and the epidemic actually the pandemic creates the environment where it happens and i'm reminded by Mark sample.
Anna Nacher: commented in chat that for him and the zoom scrolling started November 2016 and I think we all have local political moments when one does and Islam scholar happened, also in Europe in the country where i'm based to.
Anna Nacher: But we still have three questions, I would like to accommodate one from devin who is kind of a general question and the one from Magdalena and yet another one from Christian, so I hope we have enough time 20 minutes, so it should be.
Anna Nacher: Okay, to accommodate the three question mentioned that in your question is a general one so and I understand that it is a question.
Marjorie Luesebrink: To all.
Anna Nacher: Of the panelists right would you like to pose it yourself.
Devin: Sure, can you hear me okay yeah okay um so I was just wondering, you know to what extent these platform experiences are.
Devin: You know, inevitably producing these extreme behaviors I think what we just discussed was sort of along those lines and.
Devin: Somebody mentioned before, my comment i've lost it now, but they sort of also tend to listen elicited emotional response as well, and I just wondered if the panelists would in their individual examples, maybe have some insight on that.
Anna Nacher: Thank you, individual panelists to go ahead.
Anna Nacher: Something maybe with.
Anna Nacher: Rachel know.
Anna Nacher: If you guys.
Rachel Winter: yeah I definitely think that platform design as you noted, is intended to capture the attention and one of the things that can cause prolonged engagement, which is what we're looking for, so we want the advertisers to reach the largest audience possible.
Rachel Winter: Part of the way that they do that is by enabling the formation of these sort of polarized polarized communities that once here within them people tend to just reinforce each other's beliefs and push each other, further to the extreme, so I think that the way that the platform designed.
Rachel Winter: impacts these individual users experiences, is to facilitate the connection with other users with similar views i'm not sure how it necessarily applies to tinder that's something I would have to think about because of.
Rachel Winter: The private nature of the communication on tinder that it there's less I think of a tendency for the formation of these ECHO chambers.
Rachel Winter: But I definitely think that you could see similar things happening on reddit with a dedicated subreddit.
Rachel Winter: Like are the Donald and stuff like that, like they form these insular communities and they're not in there, encouraging healthy debate, but instead are sort of just like bouncing off one another and pushing each other, further to the right or further to the left.
Rachel Winter: Doing so which then encourages people to not only spend more time on the platform, but also to like returned to the platform again and again and again, so I do think it's sort of intentional in the design.
Anna Nacher: Thank you lauren you'd like to add, and then you've already I think said.
Ben Grosser: I could actually speak a lot, I mean, I think I think there's a there's a slightly different flavor to the question, if you don't mind just give a short comment.
Ben Grosser: Because you know I hear their question really is about.
Ben Grosser: Being you know.
Ben Grosser: Is polarization inevitable with these kinds of platforms and I very much believe, the answer is no it's not inevitable.
Ben Grosser: Simply having a social media platform doesn't produce polarization what produces polarization in the current conditions of the platforms we're all embedded in is.
Ben Grosser: The profit motive of the companies and the ideology of growth over everything else, the growth is the ultimate.
Ben Grosser: thing to be seeking and when those two things are put together in the case of a Facebook, for example, you end up with a system whose goal is to keep you on the system, and in that case yeah I think polarization.
Ben Grosser: is often the outcome, because one of the things that keeps people engaged is a polarizing opinion someone you know if you're on a social media platform and it's.
Ben Grosser: A Ford and says focus you on your own metrics and your metric performance, how many likes how many followers and then you.
Ben Grosser: want to see how you activate people to get more likes and followers it doesn't take very long to realize that saying something crazy outrageous is the thing that activates people to react.
Ben Grosser: And so polarization is often the outcome but that doesn't mean systems need to be designed that way system could be designed.
Ben Grosser: For example, in a way that.
Ben Grosser: discourages us rather than encourages us or tries to keep you know make people stay the least amount of time, rather than the most amount of time.
Ben Grosser: what's that.
Ben Grosser: Sorry, I heard a comment.
Okay yeah.
Ben Grosser: So.
Ben Grosser: So anyway, so I don't think it's inevitable i'm actually working on several new projects for an upcoming exhibition and.
Ben Grosser: In August, so stay tuned I actually have a platform that will be a part of that exhibition that maybe addresses that question more directly.
Anna Nacher: Thank you so much i'm looking forward to it, and it is also very uplifting to hear that polarization is not inevitable, I will keep this words as kind of a model for the social media presence and justin would you like to comment on this.
Justin: As well yeah response to the.
Justin: question whether the the alternate reality game platform is designed to encourage extreme behavior um I think the answer is no, but.
Justin: Like with anything, it can be misused and because it has historically been misused it's also really ideal for new form right like you can trace it back to the 80s, at the latest.
Justin: There just hasn't been a lot of time for it to be refined and then co opted and then refined again to prevent misuse and I think that that's where we are right now.
Justin: Now that designers or at least me and i'm telling designers are aware that, like hey this stuff that we're doing is being misappropriated for like very bad ends.
Justin: We have a responsibility to understand how that's happening and try to.
Justin: Not only refine the tools, so that it makes it harder to do that, because obviously the juice out of the bottle we can't put it back in but how can we use these tools to produce counter productive programming either explicitly.
Justin: Content designed to counteract what's being done or content that runs.
Justin: Along opposite philosophical lines and does things like increases participation elections, which is a thing that's been going on for the past couple of years, there are platforms in Spain and Taiwan across South America that use.
Justin: sort of these game logic to actually builds democracies strength to strength to be systems rather the break it down like we're seeing in the United States.
Anna Nacher: Thank you very much, and now question from Atlanta to lauren.
Justin: and
Anna Nacher: Rachel number and i'll do like to ask your question yourself.
Magdalena Regina Tyzlik-Carver: Yes, thank you.
Magdalena Regina Tyzlik-Carver: Thanks so yeah my question really I might, maybe, just to clarify, because my question is really about getting refining the users and.
Magdalena Regina Tyzlik-Carver: And if you know that results in generating that friction that Ben was talking about right so rather than making tinder tinder because, as you say in your paper, the intention of the of the tinder was to.
Magdalena Regina Tyzlik-Carver: was to connect users to new matches by other choices from playing right.
Magdalena Regina Tyzlik-Carver: And so, so obviously it, but it generated something a little bit opposite, in a sense that that the players started to realize that perhaps that kind of is not going to go well.
Magdalena Regina Tyzlik-Carver: In the future, so i'm curious as you talk about the way in which the users respond on other in other social media and i'm curious if they also responded to tinder if they kind of complained or if they sort of you know, had had some.
Magdalena Regina Tyzlik-Carver: Question to tend tend to how I or if they wanted to repair something or their possible sort of algorithmic effect of their choices on who they might be matched with, and so on, I wondered if you had any results or information about that thanks.
Lauren Rouse (she/they): yeah so we didn't particularly look to see if people had reached out directly to tinder for this study and, but I do know that people do try to like play the algorithm in tinder.
Lauren Rouse (she/they): tinder basis itself mostly off of location first, but things will happen like if you are swiping left on mostly people of color the people of color will stop showing up as often and you're like.
Lauren Rouse (she/they): deck for you to look through or if you're swiping more on people who are a certain age they'll start showing up more often and so that's how the algorithm kind of.
Lauren Rouse (she/they): works around, and I do know that, like a lot of people when they were commenting on the reddit.
Lauren Rouse (she/they): What they were really afraid of was being like labeled as like not a good person or being perceived as someone who would do something.
Lauren Rouse (she/they): Like cheat on a partner or cover for someone who is cheating and so it dealt with like a lot of morality issues.
Lauren Rouse (she/they): Additionally, a lot of people, this was run twice so tender swipe it was run the first time in October 2019 and then it was run again last summer I think it was in like August of 2020.
Lauren Rouse (she/they): And so, a lot of people played it twice and were able to like change their answers, because they had.
Lauren Rouse (she/they): known already what it was going to do, once and they were like well I don't like how that answer makes me be perceived so i'm going to change it this time and so that was also kind of their way to call back tinder and out the algorithm as well, so.
Anna Nacher: Would you like to add.
Magdalena Regina Tyzlik-Carver: anything to that.
Rachel Winter: No, I think lauren pretty much covered it.
Anna Nacher: was covered yeah but lauren Thank you so much, and we also have question from from Christian for justin Christian.
Christian Ulrik Andersen: I think I think justin has already kind of addressed what I was asking, so I think I I suggest that move on to Daniel because he's also I.
Anna Nacher: don't know this already I think asked his question, if you mean Daniel Cox, who asked two questions.
Anna Nacher: Okay, yes, so go ahead, if you want.
Anna Nacher: With your question actually doesn't need to think.
Christian Ulrik Andersen: about it sort of we sort of.
Christian Ulrik Andersen: We have different the conversations going on around different topics, so this is perhaps sort of returning a bit to something that we were discussing earlier on.
Christian Ulrik Andersen: But i'm just sort of extremely interested in how in how sort of the act of a protest a is shaped by by social media and and other kinds of sort of not just social media but various kinds of.
Christian Ulrik Andersen: social media media that construct social relations so so I have sort of a sort of an open question of how these.
Christian Ulrik Andersen: How this has changed over the past decade, because a decade ago you saw need rossiter glue been criticizing the sort of so called Twitter revolution said well revolutions or protest.
Christian Ulrik Andersen: tied to the hashtag and now you see something else which is perhaps tied.
Christian Ulrik Andersen: tied to other mechanisms, perhaps some of the mechanisms that that then also describes and I wonder how that how that changes the act of a protest.
Christian Ulrik Andersen: A Ross its own loving they they, for instance criticize the Twitter revolutions, for not having an organized network.
Christian Ulrik Andersen: But, yet you see in in June and some some kind of organized network in this sort of new propaganda that you are outlining justin.
Christian Ulrik Andersen: So what so it's more like sort of this speculative question and what what has changed, and what and what remains the same, and how does that How does that change the protest and sort of the individual's ability to imagine sort of different alternative social future yeah.
Anna Nacher: I pass this this question immediately to panelists, but I would like to chime in because I just written.
Anna Nacher: Practice in Poland and around hashtag on Twitter feminist what was called revolution, and I would like to.
Anna Nacher: briefly comment that this notion of week proudest actually I use the notion of a week province that also a concept, the concept toys, but when by one of the feminists philosophers from Poland, what she said.
Anna Nacher: She called it a week resistance was what she said was that this week resistance is something like you know felt like female kind of social activity which is not spectacular because we tend to you know we tend to associate revolutions, we don't speak spectacular jesters like like like.
Anna Nacher: Like on my spiel or you know the beginning of the French Revolution, but.
Anna Nacher: The majority of the activity around Twitter hashtags, for example, or this everyday digital activities could be named week resistance, like those acts of everyday activity on social media that often go under recognized, because often they are confined with our, for example.
Anna Nacher: chatter box or you know.
Anna Nacher: We can bounce or those those machining ways of intervening so so that that'll be my my very brief comment on is that.
Anna Nacher: As much as we despise the notion of the Twitter revolution is you know kind of a category that was a bit superficial at the time, and I think we should we shouldn't also.
Anna Nacher: Go to the extremes, there is still something to something interesting to look on so yeah sorry about turning in, but that was kind of a topic, I was interested in recently yeah go ahead, no.
Ben Grosser: yeah no thanks and i'm really appreciate hearing that it's I think the.
Ben Grosser: I think a big I mean to me with this makes me think about is that shifts in the focus of a social media platform.
Ben Grosser: can have dramatic effects on how protest plays out and certainly there's you know.
Ben Grosser: Echoing probably some of the critiques have already mentioned the idea of slack activism, the way in which platforms produce a feeling for users, that complaining about a political.
Ben Grosser: issue on social media or collectively complaining has some particular kind of effect but it doesn't necessarily usually doesn't.
Ben Grosser: Just goes into the ether and feeds the system, but after the 2016 presidential election United States Facebook changed its long standing mission statement of.
Ben Grosser: To make the world more open and connected into I don't remember what it is now but it's something about Community to build Community or something like that, and along with that was a platform change which would heavily emphasized the local.
Ben Grosser: To show a lot more local groups in one's feed, and I think at this point that's pretty well acknowledged to have been a primary producer of.
Ben Grosser: The conditions that led to the one six insurrection at the Capitol in the United States, the way in which this kind of extreme focus on the local allows the festering and the organization of individuals into groups around fringe theory and fringe ideas and.
Ben Grosser: You know the more your act your rhythmic feed identifies you as someone interested in a fringe theory, the less it's going to show you alternatives to the fringe theory or.
Ben Grosser: In some cases that i'm talking about reality less it's going to show you a reality, and the more it's going to show you.
Ben Grosser: These are the things I think the the key you know thinking a little bit about two movements that have organized over the last couple of years here one is the the kind of cumin on inspired.
Ben Grosser: interaction organized around what we call the United States in the media, the big lie that trump actually won the election of 2020 and side that one compared to say black lives matter which has had dramatic organization within social media platforms.
Ben Grosser: in ways that have.
Ben Grosser: Affected some some significant refocusing.
Ben Grosser: In the country and.
Ben Grosser: In common with both of them is a combination of extreme interaction on social media but gathering in some way.
Ben Grosser: I think black lives matter is a more of a periodic gathering she went on was kind of a directed, you know the the one six insurrection was a directed gathering towards that particular event.
Ben Grosser: And I.
Ben Grosser: won six insurrection produced what it produced, and we can talk about it in detail, I see it is pretty dramatically different from what black lives matter has produced so far.
Ben Grosser: In terms of its effect on change.
Ben Grosser: So that's maybe, and we could get.
Ben Grosser: Anyway, those are some reactions, I could probably go deep and really analyze but.
Anna Nacher: I thank you so much, it was so interesting to hear the differences and not let's not forget that.
Anna Nacher: The capital events were sort of instigated by kind of alternative platforms like events parlor and we're at the point where we can see the rise of.
Anna Nacher: out right platforms or reactionary platforms so that's also interesting issue in itself unfortunately we've got one minute left so not much.
Anna Nacher: To continue the discussion and I am so pleased, I could I had a chance to moderate this extremely interesting panel Thank you so much for the presentations and thank you very much for your questions that was awesome Thank you very much, see you at another panels Thank you so much.